Add 'DLS and multiple roles' section to DLS topic (#6408)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security/access-control/document-level-security.md

Lucene-level DLS | `lucene-level` | This setting makes all DLS queries apply to the Lucene level. | Lucene-level DLS modifies Lucene queries and data structures directly. This is the most efficient mode but does not allow certain advanced constructs in DLS queries, including TLQs.
Filter-level DLS | `filter-level` | This setting makes all DLS queries apply to the filter level. | In this mode, OpenSearch applies DLS by modifying queries that OpenSearch receives. This allows for term-level lookup queries in DLS queries, but you can only use the `get`, `search`, `mget`, and `msearch` operations to retrieve data from the protected index. Additionally, cross-cluster searches are limited with this mode.
Adaptive | `adaptive-level` | The default setting that allows OpenSearch to automatically choose the mode. | DLS queries without TLQs are executed in Lucene-level mode, while DLS queries that contain TLQ are executed in filter- level mode.

## DLS and multiple roles

> OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical OR operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another role that doesn't use DLS, the results are still filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role, this also applies to roles which do not grant read documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles which do not grant read documents.
```

> See the following example where there are two roles defined, one with DLS, and another granting access to search templates, without DLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In following examples two roles are defined, one with DLS, and another granting access to search templates without DLS:
```

> A role with DLS specified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Role with DLS specified**

```

```
{
  "index_permissions": [
    {
      "index_patterns": [
        "example-index"
      ],
      "dls": "[.. some DLS here ..]",
      "allowed_actions": [
        "indices:data/read/search",
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> A role which grants only access to search templates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Role that grants only access to search templates:**

```

```
{
  "index_permissions" : [
    {
      "index_patterns" : [ "*" ],
      "allowed_actions" : [ "indices:data/read/search/template" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> To ensure that the role with no DLS takes precedence, add the setting to the `opensearch.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To ensure that the role with no DLS takes precedence in the query response, add the following setting to `opensearch.yml`:

```

Filter-level DLS | `filter-level` | This setting makes all DLS queries apply to the filter level. | In this mode, OpenSearch applies DLS by modifying queries that OpenSearch receives. This allows for term-level lookup queries in DLS queries, but you can only use the `get`, `search`, `mget`, and `msearch` operations to retrieve data from the protected index. Additionally, cross-cluster searches are limited with this mode.
Adaptive | `adaptive-level` | The default setting that allows OpenSearch to automatically choose the mode. | DLS queries without TLQs are executed in Lucene-level mode, while DLS queries that contain TLQ are executed in filter- level mode.

## DLS and multiple roles

OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles which do not grant read documents.

> ### When to Enable `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### When to enable `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all`
```

Lucene-level DLS | `lucene-level` | This setting makes all DLS queries apply to the Lucene level. | Lucene-level DLS modifies Lucene queries and data structures directly. This is the most efficient mode but does not allow certain advanced constructs in DLS queries, including TLQs.
Filter-level DLS | `filter-level` | This setting makes all DLS queries apply to the filter level. | In this mode, OpenSearch applies DLS by modifying queries that OpenSearch receives. This allows for term-level lookup queries in DLS queries, but you can only use the `get`, `search`, `mget`, and `msearch` operations to retrieve data from the protected index. Additionally, cross-cluster searches are limited with this mode.
Adaptive | `adaptive-level` | The default setting that allows OpenSearch to automatically choose the mode. | DLS queries without TLQs are executed in Lucene-level mode, while DLS queries that contain TLQ are executed in filter- level mode.

## DLS and multiple roles

> OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles which do not grant read documents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role that uses DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles that do not grant read documents.
```

> OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles which do not grant read documents.

Reviewer 2: is "grant read documents" correct? (It may be, but it reads a bit oddly to me).

Reviewer: "Read document permissions?"

> OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles which do not grant read documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch combines all DLS queries with the logical `OR` operator. However, when a role with DLS is combined with another security role that doesn't use DLS, the query results are filtered to display only documents matching the DLS from the first role. This filter rule also applies to roles which do not grant read document permissions.
```

### When to enable `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all`

> When to enable the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` setting depends on whether you want to restrict users from accessing documents without DLS. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When to enable the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` setting depends on whether you want to restrict user access to documents without DLS. 
```

> To ensure access is not restricted, you can set the following configuration in  `opensearch.yml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure access is not restricted, you can set the following configuration in `opensearch.yml`:
```

```
plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all: true
```
{% include copy.html %}

> The following examples show what level of access roles with DLS enabled and without DLS enabled, depending on the interaction. These examples can help you decide when to enable the ``plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following examples show what level of access roles with DLS enabled and without DLS enabled, depending on the interaction. These examples can help you decide when to enable the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` setting.
```

> The following examples show what level of access roles with DLS enabled and without DLS enabled, depending on the interaction. These examples can help you decide when to enable the ``plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` setting.

Reviewer 2: I'm not following "what level of access roles with..." Do we mean something like "show access role levels both with and without DLS enabled"?

Reviewer: "Level of access" describes the permission level the roles are given. So maybe remove the word levels and say, "show access given both with and without DLS enabled?"

#### Example: Document access

> This example shows that enabling `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` is beneficial in scenarios where you need specific users to have unrestricted access to documents, despite being part of a broader group with restricted access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates that enabling `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` is beneficial in scenarios where you need specific users to have unrestricted access to documents despite being part of a broader group with restricted access.
```

> **Role A with DLS**: This role is granted to a broad group of users and includes Document-Level Security (DLS) to restrict access to specific documents, as shown in the following permission set:

Reviewer 2: DLS should be defined once where it first appears in the document. Only the abbreviation should be used thereafter.

> **Role A with DLS**: This role is granted to a broad group of users and includes Document-Level Security (DLS) to restrict access to specific documents, as shown in the following permission set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Role A with DLS**: This role is granted to a broad group of users and includes DLS to restrict access to specific documents, as shown in the following permission set:
```

```
{
  "index_permissions": [
    {
      "index_patterns": ["example-index"],
      "dls": "[.. some DLS here ..]",
      "allowed_actions": ["indices:data/read/search"]
    }
  ]
}
```

> **Role B without DLS:** This role is specifically granted to certain users, such as administrators, and does not include DLS, as shown in the following permission set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Role B without DLS:** This role is specifically granted to certain users, such as administrators, and does not include DLS, as shown in the following permission set:
```

```
{
  "index_permissions" : [
    {
      "index_patterns" : ["*"],
      "allowed_actions" : ["indices:data/read/search"]
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Setting `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` to `true` ensures that administrators assigned Role B can override any document-level security restrictions imposed by Role A. This allows specific users designated in Role B to access all documents, regardless of the restrictions applied by Role A's DLS restrictions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` to `true` ensures that administrators assigned Role B can override any DLS restrictions imposed by Role A. This allows specific Role B users to access all documents, regardless of the restrictions applied by Role A's DLS restrictions.
```

#### Example: Search template access

> In this example, two roles are defined, one with DLS, and another without DLS granting access to search templates:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, two roles are defined, one with DLS and another without DLS, granting access to search templates:
```

**Role A with DLS:**

```
{
  "index_permissions": [
    {
      "index_patterns": [
        "example-index"
      ],
      "dls": "[.. some DLS here ..]",
      "allowed_actions": [
        "indices:data/read/search",
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> **Role B, without DLS** that grants only access to search templates:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Role B, without DLS**, which only grants access to search templates:
```

```
{
  "index_permissions" : [
    {
      "index_patterns" : [ "*" ],
      "allowed_actions" : [ "indices:data/read/search/template" ]
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> When a user has both Role A and Role B permissions, the query results are filtered based on Role A's DLS, even though Role B doesn't use DLS. The DLS settings are held and the returned access is appropriately restricted. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a user has both Role A and Role B permissions, the query results are filtered based on Role A's DLS, even though Role B doesn't use DLS. The DLS settings are retained, and the returned access is appropriately restricted. 
```

> With the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` is enabled when a user is assigned both Role A and Role B, Role B's permissions will override Role A's restrictions, allowing that user to access all documents. This ensures that the role without DLS takes precedence in the search query response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` enabled when a user is assigned both Role A and Role B, Role B's permissions will override Role A's restrictions, allowing that user to access all documents. This ensures that the role without DLS takes precedence in the search query response.
```

> With the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` is enabled when a user is assigned both Role A and Role B, Role B's permissions will override Role A's restrictions, allowing that user to access all documents. This ensures that the role without DLS takes precedence in the search query response.

Reviewer 2: Would the first sentence be better as "When a user is assigned both Role A and Role B and the `plugins.security.dfm_empty_overrides_all` setting is enabled, Role B's permissions..."?
